BENGALURU: In a major relief to II PU ( pre university) students in Karnataka, the department of pre university- education (DPUE) has decided to conduct the final exams based on the blow-up syllabus as was done earlier. This annuls its decision to include the entire textbook for the exam.

The latest circular states that the annual and preparatory exams for Science students will be held according to the blow-up syllabus in March 2015 as per the timetable. From 2015-16, the exams will be based on the prescribed textbook.

For decades, PU Science students didn't have to study from a single textbook. To follow the National Curriculum Framework, the department introduced the NCERT textbooks in 2013.

However, the sudden change troubled students in the state. To make it easy for students, the department designed a blow-up syllabus highlighting major parts of the curriculum which would help them study only what is needed for the exams. In a shocker, DPUE suddenly issued a circular that questions for preparatory exams would be based on the entire prescribed textbook, and not just restricted to the blow-up syllabus.

Students were left in the lurch as the circular came almost towards the end of the academic year. With just weeks left for the practical and preparatory exams, the circular stunned students and triggered protests by student bodies across the state. The theory papers of the II PU exam are scheduled to start from March 12.

"The department is playing with our lives. One day, they ask us to study according to one syllabus. The next day, they say we'll be tested on something else. Why are they so unplanned? We're already under stress with the exams so close and the department is making it worse for us," said a PU student.

Times View

Educational authorities appear to be running the exam show on sudden decisions and strange whims. Changing the syllabus quite suddenly for II PU students, who are under severe pressure dealing with board exams and a range of entrance tests to professional courses round the corner, is just not done. Luckily in this case, better judgment has prevailed. A blow-up syllabus appears to be working well, allowing students to focus on important topics. Why change things just for the sake of change? There should be a plan and purpose behind such moves.

Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.
Post a comment
More from The Times of India	

    Actress held for forcing daughter into flesh trade 11 Feb 2015
    Mobs targetted Muslim homes as cops looked on 29 Jan 2015
    17-year-old guns down dreaded criminal in broad daylight 16 Feb 2015
    King cobras fall into pit, female swallows mate 16 Feb 2015
    Muslim clerics pose six questions to RSS 17 Feb 2015
    ‘Hindus lured and forced to convert’ 18 Feb 2015

Recommended by
Subscribe to Top News Newsletter
Get updates on the most important happening of the day
None of the comments have been up voted.
Harsha Reddy • 66
•
[Member]
• Hatfield, Hertfordshire, • 45 days ago

Really this shows the carelessness of the PU board. As an Govt body every one knows how lazily these officials work. Not it is proved that they are brainless and plan less people. It seems they are still in New year (drunkers') hangover mood. PU Officers please come out think like human beings when taking some decision.
0 0 • Reply • Flag
Connect with us
ICC Cricket World Cup 2015Budget 2015
Subscribe to our Newsletters
Top News
(Daily)
Tech News
(Daily)
Entertainment
(Daily)
Life & Style
(Daily)
Movie Review
(Weekly)
  
FEATURED TODAY IN SCHOOLS & COLLEGES

more
Hi there,
Login with your Facebook ID to see what your friends are reading on Times of India.
MOST POPULAR

    Read
    |
    Commented
    |
    Shared

From City

    Modi stars in Mulayam-Lalu show; PM warms up to political rivals at 'tilak' of MSY's grand nephew
    AAP MLAs clash with cops over kidnapping
    Once a TOI vendor in Bengaluru, IIM student rockets to MNC job
    Rs 1.50 cr worth of gold seized from two passengers

more
more
QUICKSTIR
7 Kheer Recipes To Cure 'Rampal Kheer Phobia'
7 Kheer Recipes To Cure 'Rampal Kheer Phobia'

    9 Great Philosophers And Their Inspiring Quotes!
    Powerful Poem On Our Obsession With Validation!
    Let's Honour These 7 Real Men On Int'l Men's Day

more from QuickStir»
Weather in Bengaluru
TIMES POINTS

    All
    TOI
    My Profile

Know more about Times Points
THE TIMES OF INDIA
Powered by INDIATIMES

    About us
    Advertise with us
    Terms of Use and Grievance Redressal Policy
    Privacy policy
    Feedback
    RSS
    Newsletter
    TOI Mobile
    ePaper
    Sitemap
    Archives

Other Times Group news sites
The Economic Times
इकनॉमिक टाइम्स | ઈકોનોમિક ટાઈમ્સ
Pune Mirror | Bangalore Mirror
Ahmedabad Mirror | ItsMyAscent
Education Times | Brand Capital
Mumbai Mirror | Times Now
Indiatimes | नवभारत टाइम्स
महाराष्ट्र टाइम्स | ವಿಜಯ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ
Go Green | NavGujarat Samay
Living and entertainment
Timescity | iDiva | Entertainment | Zoom
Healthmeup | Luxpresso | Gadget Reviews
Guylife | Online Songs

Interest Network
itimes | Email
Hot on the Web
World | Politics
Business | Sports
Entertainment
Science & Tech
New Cars
Budget 2015
Services
Book print ads | Online shopping | Free SMS | Website design | CRM | Tenders
Matrimonial | Ringtones | Astrology | Jobs | Tech Community | Property | Buy car
Bikes in India | Deals | Free Classifieds | Send money to India | Used Cars
Restaurants in Delhi | Movie Show Timings in Mumbai | Remit to India | Buy Mobiles
Listen Songs | News | Real Estate Developers

Trending Topics
Tata Bolt Price | Photogallery | You Tube | Delhi Travel Guide | Katrina Kaif Photos | Best Android Phones | Hindi Songs | Horoscope 2015 Predictions | iPhone 6 Price | Facebook | Sunny Leone Photos | Hindi News
